Welcome back.
Let's dive into convolution 2D and the actual operation of it.
All right.
So this is an example of convolution operation.
You can see the colonel which is designated by the light purple where the top role as represented by
minus one minus two and minus one.
The second row is 0 0 0.
And then the third row is 1 to 1.
So in this case this is our colonel.
That's being applied to the image while this image is a four by six four by six in terms of the dimension
and is grayscale.
You will notice that the height that's four and the width is actually six.
In this case now the other thing that I do want to highlight if you keep looking at these so-called
details here is that the operation works like this you apply the colonel on to the tree by the tree
by three field to Colonel onto the pics the image the tree at the top.
Start with the top corner the three by three portion of the image itself and then you follow by element
y's multiplication.
So the minus one multiply ten which I've actually laid out here as an example for you followed by minus
two which is from the colonel multiply by two all from the image minus one multiplied by the three value
of three an image.
And notice that these are all individual element y's multiplication and then you sum them up.
So that's why this descriptor here say some all element y's multiplication I've provided this as a convolution
operation spreadsheet in the form of a spreadsheet on this strike.
This he could do one worksheet if you look at this.
So basically we have this kernel applied to this portion of the image and the output here is 19 which
is the value that we received here.
So let us flip over to the spreadsheet that are provided here straight is a to one and this is the actual
computation and and if you look at the formula which is pretty much the example that I've shown you
earlier including the actual working itself.
So if you move to the next cell it shows you that the kernel there food to know has been slide along.
Okay.
The strike is one.
So there's been slight along to the next column and you keep repeating this until you come to the end
of the image and you notice very quickly that we can only go as far as four in terms of the output although
the image has six in terms of with but the output is only for the reason as you can see pretty obvious
really is that the three by three cannot be applied outside.
Okay.
Once you actually move one more slide long by one more pixel then you actually start applying it to
outside of the image and that will not work and it's not possible to do that hence the image dimension
or the output size has been reduced from four times six fours our height six is now with two two times
four to hide this now two four is the width and every time when you actually apply three by three you
will lose two columns and two rows.
And if you apply five by five you'll lose four columns and four rows.
So that's basically how the actual calculation in terms of the output works.
Now this is also an example applying the colonel food to without padding what we did just now is essentially
this is the same as the previous slide.
The.
There's no difference yet.
I just wanted to highlight that this is an example of applying the colonel food to without padding.
Okay.
And I also want to illustrate to you what it looks like when you actually apply.
Few to apply padding but before we go there let's look at what happened if you apply multiple futures.
In this example we only apply one filter what happens when you apply multiple shooters quite often in
CNN.
The architecture itself you apply multiple layers and quite often somewhere between 30 to 64 or even
higher.
And in those situations when you apply a multiple filters or multiple kernels you will obtain multiple
outputs.
Let's take an example first of all and look at the CNN that we actually looked at earlier for one of
some about examples.
You notice that this is convolution 2D.
Let's start off with three by three.
This is the kernel.
Okay.
The dimension of the kernel is treated pixel high and three pixel y and just pay attention for now to
the first two value thirty two and then bracket the top all three three comma three the thirty two is
the actual number of filters being applied.
So in this case the first convolution layer applied thirty two filters so you will receive thirty two
outputs.
Okay.
And the next convolution there you can see it says sixty four followed by a three comma three.
So there's a still a three by three kernel matrix.
And the difference now is that you have sixty four kernels or sixty four futures being applied.
So the number of layers will increase by sixty four.
And let's look at the so-called output this provided by Kerry's.
Couple of things on the highlight.
Notice that the input picture is 28 by 28.
After we apply the three by three matrix the filter what you receive is 26 by 26.
In terms of the output dimension.
Okay.
Now you'll notice that the number remember that the picture is only a grayscale so it's only one channel.
After you apply the colonel 32 Colonel activation map is also core.
What you receive now is that you have a dimension of 26 by 26.
But now you have 32 layer deep off of output and if you continue to go to highlight this.
So this is the 26 by 26 shape and we have 32 recalled that when we actually apply the image before it
was only 1.
Okay.
The input shape is 28 by 28.
And only one great scale but the output after going through this convolution layer is that you receive
now 32 in terms of the so-called 32 output layers.
Ignore the max pulling for now will cover it and teach a lesson.
And when you actually apply another convolution layer onto the output of the max pulling layer.
You'll notice that we reduce by two rows and reduce by two columns.
And now the convolution increase to sixty four.
And on and on goes now if you want to maintain the dimension input dimensions 28 and the output dimension
is due 28 by 28.
And then you use padding is equal to the same.
OK.
In Caris so and that's where you actually put it in here.
There's not a comma.
Heading is equal to the same right.
So this is a pictorial example.
What we discussed.
If you look at this in the code example provided above that it too few tests were used.
There will be 32 output hands.
We have thirty two copies of the 26 image but the copies on the same because of the different kernels
being applied to it.
So you actually get 32 activation map.
And so this is an example when you apply one filter.
This is only an example of one.
But if you apply thirty to you will get 32 dairies into a 32 here.
By the way it's just as it is just an example of the output ought to be 32 activation Matt.
There are some common filters or kernels that you have seen before.
You have sharpened you have blur and you have bottom so well and there's actually a link here provided
here for you to actually referred to in fact you've seen this before.
Here are some of the examples the.
There are a few here.
I borrowed the examples of those numbers that actually from here.
So we were looking at sharpened so let's look at shopping.
If you select shopping so that this is shop and if you apply it just a blur which was blue.
Yep these are the numbers of values and Blur and.
Yeah.
And on and on it goes.
So these are the common future but of course these are handcrafted and it's time consuming to handcrafted
manually crafted yourself.
And if you leave it to the CNN it will actually design according to the input image and it will land
by itself.
Well that's the beauty of the neural network.
All right let's look at how you use this in carries that couple of things that I do want you to take
note of the depth of the output as relates to the number of futures.
Recall that in the code that we look at it was 32.
There is also another parameters that's important which is strides.
Right now the default is one comma one meaning one height of one and the width of one.
And quite often people just leave one day meaning it's one for both high end with you can actually have
different numbers two for the height and one for the width if that's what you won but generally is just
left as the scale of value scalar meaning just one value.
And that will mean or translate to is the same for both the height and with.
Now you can also apply a number that is greater than one.
That will means that you actually start skipping pixel or no one basically means moved to the next pixel.
But if you put two is that skipping one pick.
So if you put three or skipping two pixels and the outcome of that is that it will reduce the size of
the output and padding or more accurately zero padding it's zero to the external dimension.
OK.
So that you can actually recover the same dimension as the so-called output.
Now if you look at some examples on the strides I've chosen height of one and with this equate to two
and this is an example of straight off two if you look at this initially we are applying to this but
the next one no longer apply to trough instead is skip one pixel and go over to three column this column
here that this is an example of height.
This it could do one.
And with this it could do to do with two here meaning that we are skipping one pixel so essentially
skipped column number two here again provide this in the form of Excel spreadsheet you can actually
go to strike two.
They could do to tab and this is the actual calculation itself.
You can see that it's applied to tend to often three and we come over to the next one.
The output is is it doesn't actually apply to two of it's just go two three four and three and then
stopped it doesn't actually continue on because when is the next one's supposed to skip four and then
go to three but that's not enough.
You already are starting to move outside the pictures are no longer works
OK.
So play around with that.
So this is kind of like a well in a way a slow motion picture that I want to show you.
You can't actually go back to the spreadsheet to see how it's done.
So we are applying a three by three filter.
Okay to our 10 by 10 matrix destroy this one.
So right.
So the green highlighted matrix the three by three matrix is where the fruit is being applied to the
next slide shows you.
It's moved to the next one and the next one and the next one noticed it is just stepping to the next.
Then the next and the next.
Okay.
Now you have output of eight times eight.
Okay so that's the basic idea.
If you move along in terms of the strike as equal to one.
Let's talk in an example with strikers to go to now the instead of green to food to now it's purple.
Take a moment.
Have a guess where should it moved to.
Yes.
If you save the column that start with three you'll be right.
Okay.
It will continue to actually move to the next.
But skipping one pixel continuously
right in terms of the output size there are some things to actually take note of.
This is a formula that continuously or rather commonly used and papers.
The end is the so-called number of columns and terms of with minors F F is the future divide by the
stripe plus one.
So that's essentially how it works and has the example of n is good to 10 F is a good 2 3.
So if destroy this one then you have ten minus three lines become seven divided by one plus one you
get eight is the output size and if you have a straight up to the output size becomes four and a half.
Of course you can have four and a half so it becomes four.
Okay so it goes down at round down all right the next slide that I want to cover before we stopped this
video is zero padding zero padding if you can.
This is our original ten by 10
pixels.
The slight variation is that we we've added zero on the edge.
The zero on the site.
Sorry.
This is not a ten by ten.
This is the full by 6.
My apologies.
So one two three four one two three four five six.
And notice that we added zero all around it.
And now we can recover the original size of four by six.
Okay.
And that's the critical part of zero padding in carers.
You put padding is the same.
And that's how you exit we covered the same dimension as per your input.
Again I provided it in terms of the zero padding tab.
You can actually look at this.
The calculation is the same as do element lies.
And then you sum them up.
The difference now is because there is an extra mile.
These are the so-called layer that is being applied.
The zero padding.
Let me just highlight that so is easier for you to visualize the zero padding.
There allows you to actually recover the original size of the input picture.
The original size is four by six and the output is also four by six right.
That's really the end of our lesson.
When we come back I'm gonna dig into the activation function a little bit to help you understand what
it is and how it works and what's the purpose of using it.
Thank you once again for watching.